## How a Hit Chinese Song From the 80s Became a Global Meme
费玉清"一剪梅"爆红欧美：全因一句歌词

“The snowflakes are fluttering and the north wind is blowing,” serenades singer-songwriter Fei Yu-ching in his 1983 classic, Yi Jian Mei. The melancholic love song compares the singer’s undying love to a blossoming plum tree in the middle of winter. 
“雪花飘飘，北风萧萧”，这句话源自于我国创作型歌手费玉清在1983年创作的经典歌曲《一剪梅》中的一句歌词。这首忧郁的爱情歌曲把歌手永恒的爱意比作寒冬中傲然绽放的梅花。

It’s also an apt metaphor for the song that has found a second life in the unlikeliest of circumstances nearly four decades later, shooting to the top of music charts… in snowy Scandinavia. 
这首歌的寓意也像极了这首歌本身，在四十年后的今天，这首歌曲竟焕发了第二春。在被白雪覆盖的斯堪的纳维亚，《一剪梅》拿下了音乐排行榜的第一名。

Yi Jian Mei has occupied the top spot on Spotify’s Viral 50 charts in Norway for over a week now, and it’s second in Sweden and Finland over the past few days. It also reached the top of the charts in New Zealand, where it remained at the time of publishing. 


Interest in “Xue hua piao piao” has surged since the beginning of May, peaking in early June, according to Google Trends. 

Just how did a 37-year-old Chinese song capture a global audience all of a sudden? The earliest clues can be found on Kuaishou, one of the most popular video apps in China. 

On January 6, actor-turned-director Zhang Aiqin posted a 10-second video of himself doing what many others regularly do on short video apps: He sang a song. 

While not quite a household name, Zhang has starred in supporting roles in several domestic blockbusters, turning his unusual appearance into an asset that has earned him the endearing nickname of “duck egg.” He calls himself “Brother Egg” in his Kuaishou account. 

In that clip, he did a brief rendering of Yi Jian Mei while outdoors, surrounded by bare branches and heavy snow. The video has since been viewed more than 3.2 million times by Kuaishou’s primarily China-based users. 

It might have just stopped there if not for the power of the internet in 2020. 

In a string of events detailed by Know Your Meme, a website documenting the origins of memes, a user discovered Zhang’s video in February and shared it on YouTube. 

In late March, another user reposted the clip on Instagram and replaced Zhang’s voice with the original performance by Fei. From then on, the clip gradually gained momentum, circulating widely on global social platforms like Twitter and TikTok. 